Blogpost: Gigax Cubzh Hugging Face collaboration demo (#2123)
huggingface/blog: npc-gigax-cubzh.md

authors:
- user: Trist4x
  guest: true
  org: Gigax
- user: SolitonMa
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: aduermael
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: gdevillele
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: caillef
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: ThomasSimonini
---

# Introducing (name of the demo) Experience the Next Level of NPC Interaction

Let’s find another title this one is bad 😅

ADD THUMBNAIL HERE TOO

## Introduction

One of the most important breakthrough in using AI in games are Large Language Models (LLM) powered NPCs (Non-Playable Characters).

These intelligent characters, made possible thanks of LLM, **can engage in realistic conversations and perform complex actions, dramatically enhancing player experience**.

That's why today, we are excited to **introduce a groundbreaking demo** (NAME OF THE DEMO) created through the collaboration of [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) and [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) teams, showcasing the potential of smart LLM-powered NPCs.

VIDEO OF THE DEMO

You can play with the demo here 👉

In this demo, (describe the demo in one sentence)

To create this, the teams used three main tools:

> - [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/): the game platform.

Author: ✅

- [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax): the smart LLM-powered NPCs engine.
- [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces): for hosting the game online.

In this blog post, **we will explore Cubzh, Gigax, and how the demo works**.

## What is Cubzh?

[Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) is an online game platform where everything is made from voxels (cubes). 

> It offers a **rich gaming environment for players to build, explore, and share unique experiences**.

Author: ✅

ADD ILLUSTRATION

With Cubzh, you can:

- **Create your own worlds** and craft new game items and avatars.

> - **Code your games using the Lua programming language**.

Author: ✅

> - Play for free on [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/?l=french) or [directly in your browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).

Reviewer: You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/p/cubzh-3cc767), on Mobile via [AppStore](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh)

Author: ✅

> ---

Reviewer 2: We also need an entry in `_blog.yml` with the title, thumbnail, date, and main author.

Author: Done ✅

> title: "NPC GIGAX CUBZH" 

Reviewer 2: This should be in sync with the title in the 1st-level header.

Author: ✅

thumbnail: /blog/assets/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: Trist4x
  guest: true
  org: Gigax
- user: SolitonMa
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: aduermael
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: gdevillele
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: caillef
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: ThomasSimonini
---

# Introducing (name of the demo) Experience the Next Level of NPC Interaction

Let’s find another title this one is bad 😅

> ADD THUMBNAIL HERE TOO

Reviewer 2: reminder to replace

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: I think there's no need to add an `Introduction` header after the post title.

```suggestion
```

> One of the most important breakthrough in using AI in games are Large Language Models (LLM) powered NPCs (Non-Playable Characters).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AI-powered NPCs (Non-Playable Characters) are one of the most important breakthroughs brought about by the use of LLMs in games.
```

maybe?

> These intelligent characters, made possible thanks of LLM, **can engage in realistic conversations and perform complex actions, dramatically enhancing player experience**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LLMs, or Large Language Models, make it possible to design _"intelligent"_ in-game characters that **can engage in realistic conversations with the player, perform complex actions and follow instructions, dramatically enhancing the player's experience**. AI-powered NPCs represent a huge advancement vs rule-based and heuristics systems.
```

> That's why today, we are excited to **introduce a groundbreaking demo** (NAME OF THE DEMO) created through the collaboration of [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) and [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) teams, showcasing the potential of smart LLM-powered NPCs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we are excited to **introduce a groundbreaking demo** (NAME OF THE DEMO) created through the collaboration of the [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) and [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) teams, showcasing the potential of smart LLM-powered NPCs.
```

VIDEO OF THE DEMO

You can play with the demo here 👉

In this demo, (describe the demo in one sentence)

To create this, the teams used three main tools:

> - [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/): the cross-platform UGC Game Engine.

Reviewer 2: Maybe spell it out as user-generated content here.

> Today, we are excited to **introduce a groundbreaking demo**: *NPC-Playground* created through the collaboration of the [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) and [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) teams, showcasing the potential of smart LLM-powered NPCs.

Reviewer 3: `https://cu.bzh` -> `https://github.com/cubzh/cubzh`

Author: ✅

> - [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax): the smart LLM-powered NPCs engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax): the engine for smart NPCs.
```

> - [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces): for hosting the game online.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces): the easiest way to host your game online.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd maybe also mention the models used here as well.

Author: Though the models are not running on Hugging Face that's why I didn't mentionned Hub

> In this blog post, **we will explore Cubzh, Gigax, and how the demo works**.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/): the cross-platform UGC (user content generated) Game Engine.

Author: ✅

## What is Cubzh?

[Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) is the new UGC gaming platform to create cross-platform games with Lua and Cubes.

> It offers a **rich gaming environment for players to create the best gaming experiences to play with friends.**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It offers a **rich gaming environment for players to create their own game experiences to share with friends**.
```

ADD ILLUSTRATION

With Cubzh, you can:

- **Create your own worlds** and craft new game items and avatars.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces): the easiest way to host your game online.

Author: ✅

- Use a **library of +25k free assets created by Cubzh's community**.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [Cubzh](https://cu.bzh/) s a cross-platform UGC game engine, that aims to provide an open-source alternative to Roblox.

Reviewer 3: `https://cu.bzh` -> `https://github.com/cubzh/cubzh`

Author: ✅

> - **Create your own worlds** and craft new game items and avatars.

Author: ✅

> - Use a **library of +25k free assets created by Cubzh's community**.

Author: ✅

- **Code games using a simple but powerful Lua scripting API**.

> You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/en-US/p/cubzh-3cc767), on Mobile via [AppStore](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/en-US/p/cubzh-3cc767), or on Mobile via [Apple's App Store](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).
```

> - **Code games using a simple but powerful Lua scripting API**.

Author: ✅

> In this demo, Cubzh serves as the **game engine, providing a seamless and immersive experience**.

Reviewer 2: What does seamless mean here?

Author: In the way that's it's super easy/smooth to run the experience. But I can remove this if it's not clear.

## What is Gigax?

[Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) is a platform that **provides LLM-powered NPCs at scale**.

ADD ILLUSTRATION

> By training large language models specifically for NPC interactions, **Gigax enables these characters to make decisions and perform actions based on predefined parameters**.
> 
> This makes NPCs smarter, more interactive, and more human-like.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By training large language models specifically for NPC interactions, **Gigax enables these characters to make decisions and perform actions based on predefined parameters**. This makes NPCs smarter, more interactive, and more human-like.
```

> You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/en-US/p/cubzh-3cc767), or on Mobile via [Apple's App Store](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).

Author: I made a mix of this one and the former one ✅

> In this demo, Cubzh serves as the **game engine, providing an immersive experience**.

Author: ✅

> Gigax published their models on the Hub: https://huggingface.co/Gigax
> 
> And their package is available on Github: https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All Gigax models are available and ready to use on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/Gigax). You can see how to incorporate them to your games using their [Github repo](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax).
```

## The (NAME OF THE DEMO) Demo

This new demo **leverages the strengths of Cubzh and Gigax, along with Hugging Face Spaces for online hosting**.

In this demo, you'll interact with smart NPCs capable of dynamic conversations and complex behaviors (take the explanation from the introduction)

> You can start playing with the demo here 👉 [Link to Demo]

Reviewer 2: I'd describe what it does in more specific terms. I'd also like to see what models are used and how they've been fine-tuned. Can users add other models from the Hub? How would they do it?

> But playing with the demo is just a first step, if you're interested on customize it, [check out our comprehensive ML for Games Course tutorial for step-by-step instructions and resources](https://huggingface.co/learn/ml-games-course/unit3/introduction).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Playing with the demo is just the first step! If you're interested in customizing it, [check out our comprehensive ML for Games Course tutorial for step-by-step instructions and resources](https://huggingface.co/learn/ml-games-course/unit3/introduction).
```

-- 

We hope you enjoyed exploring NAME OF THE DEMO and experiencing the future of gaming with smart LLM-powered NPCs. 

> The collaboration between Cubzh and Gigax has demonstrated **how advanced AI can transform NPC interactions, making them more engaging and lifelike.**

Author: Agreed I changed for just the CTA of joining

> You can modify the `world.lua` file to teach them new skills with a few lines of Lua scripting.

Reviewer 3: ```md
## The NPC-Playground Demo

Interact with LLM-powered NPCs in our 3D Playground, in your browser: [huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs](https://huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs).

Just clone the repository and modify `cubzh.lua` to teach NPCs new skills with a few lines of Lua scripting!
```

- Fixed file name (`cubzh.lua` not `world.lua`)
- Emphasize on the fact demo play within browser (less friction)

---
title: "Introducing NPC-Playground, a 3D playground to interact with LLM-powered NPCs" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: Trist4x
  guest: true
  org: Gigax
- user: SolitonMa
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: aduermael
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: gdevillele
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: caillef
  guest: true
  org: cubzh
- user: ThomasSimonini
---

# Introducing NPC-Playground, a 3D playground to interact with LLM-powered NPCs

> <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/thumbnail.png" alt="Thumbnail"/>

Author: Yes it's a mistake I deleted it

*AI-powered NPCs* (Non-Playable Characters) are **one of the most important breakthroughs brought** about by the use of LLMs in games.

LLMs, or Large Language Models, make it possible to design _"intelligent"_ in-game characters that **can engage in realistic conversations with the player, perform complex actions and follow instructions, dramatically enhancing the player's experience**. AI-powered NPCs represent a huge advancement vs rule-based and heuristics systems.

> Today, we are excited to **introduce a groundbreaking demo**: *NPC-Playground* created through the collaboration of the [Cubzh](https://github.com/cubzh/cubzh) and [Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) teams, showcasing the potential of smart LLM-powered NPCs.

Author: ✅

## What is Cubzh?

[Cubzh](https://github.com/cubzh/cubzh) is a cross-platform UGC game engine, that aims to provide an open-source alternative to Roblox.

It offers a **rich gaming environment where users can create their own game experiences and play with friends**.
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/gigax.gif" alt="Cubzh"/>

In Cubzh, you can:

- **Create your own worlds items and avatars**.

- Build fast, using community **made voxel items** (+25K so far in the library) and **open-source Lua modules**.

- **Code games using a simple yet powerful Lua scripting API**.

Cubzh is in public Alpha. You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/en-US/p/cubzh-3cc767), or on Mobile via [Apple's App Store](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).

> In this demo, Cubzh serves as the **game engine** running directly within a Hugging Face Space, users can easily clone it to experiment with custom scripts and NPC personas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this demo, Cubzh serves as the **game engine** running directly within a Hugging Face Space. You can easily clone it to experiment with custom scripts and NPC personas!
```

## What is Gigax?

[Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) is the platform game developers use to run **LLM-powered NPCs at scale**.

> Gigax has fine-tuned large language models for NPC interactions, **using the "function calling" principle.**

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we could very conceptually clarify what we mean with fine-tuning, for game developers that may not be familiar with these concepts yet.

Author: ✅

It's easier to think about this in terms of input/output flow:

> - In **input**, the model reads [a text description](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax/blob/main/gigax/prompt.py) of a 3D scene, alongside a description of the recent events and a list of the NPC's available actions (e.g., `<say>`, `<jump>`, `<attack>`, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On **input**, the model reads [a text description (prompt)](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax/blob/main/gigax/prompt.py) of a 3D scene, alongside a description of recent events and a list of actions available for the NPCs (e.g., `<say>`, `<jump>`, `<attack>`, etc.).
```

Very interesting! I don't see NPC actions in that example (I do see actions for the protagonist).

- The model then **outputs** one of these actions using parameters that refer to 3D entities that exist in the scene, e.g. `say NPC1 "Hello, Captain!"`.

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/gigax.png" alt="gigax" />

> Gigax has **open-sourced their stack!** You can download their [fine-tuned models on the 🤗 Hub](https://huggingface.co/Gigax), and clone their [inference stack on Github](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax).

Reviewer 2: Some questions people may have:
- What were the original models that were fine-tuned?
- Do they run locally or via inference?

> ## The NPC-Playground Demo

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on showing this before discussing the stack? (Maybe not, if we have the video)

Author: I think since we have the video in the beginning plus link people will be able to follow the process from stack to going deeper on cubzh and gigax infos

Interact with LLM-powered NPCs in our 3D Playground, in your browser: [huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs](https://huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs).

> Just clone the repository and modify `cubzh.lua` to teach NPCs new skills with a few lines of Lua scripting!

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to the file, or to some interesting section of it.

It offers a **rich gaming environment for players to create their own game experiences to share with friends**.
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/gigax.gif" alt="Cubzh"/>

With Cubzh, you can:

- **Create your own worlds** and craft new game items and avatars.

- Use a **library of +25k free assets created by Cubzh's community**.

- **Code games using a simple but powerful Lua scripting API**.

You can download and play Cubzh for free on Desktop via [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1386770/Cubzh_Open_Alpha/), [Epic Game Store](https://store.epicgames.com/en-US/p/cubzh-3cc767), or on Mobile via [Apple's App Store](https://apps.apple.com/th/app/cubzh/id1478257849), [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.voxowl.pcubes.android&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1) or even play directly from your [browser](https://app.cu.bzh/).

In this demo, Cubzh serves as the **game engine, providing an immersive experience**.

## What is Gigax?

[Gigax](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax) is the platform game developers use to run **LLM-powered NPCs at scale**.

> Gigax has fine-tuned large language models for NPC interactions, **using the "function calling" principle. **

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Gigax has fine-tuned large language models for NPC interactions, **using the "function calling" principle.**
```

It's easier to think about this in terms of input/output flow:

- In **input**, the model reads [a text description](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax/blob/main/gigax/prompt.py) of a 3D scene, alongside a description of the recent events and a list of the NPC's available actions (e.g., `<say>`, `<jump>`, `<attack>`, etc.).

- The model then **outputs** one of these actions using parameters that refer to 3D entities that exist in the scene, e.g. `say NPC1 "Hello, Captain!"`.

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/181_npc-gigax-cubzh/gigax.png" alt="gigax" />

Gigax has **open-sourced their stack!** You can download their [fine-tuned models on the 🤗 Hub](https://huggingface.co/Gigax), and clone their [inference stack on Github](https://github.com/GigaxGames/gigax).

## The NPC-Playground Demo

> This new demo **leverages the strengths of Cubzh and Gigax, along with Hugging Face Spaces for online hosting**.
> 
> In this demo, you can **interact, have conversations with the NPCs and teach them new skills with just a few lines of Lua scripting!**
> 
> You can play with the demo 👉 [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs) 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Interact with LLM-powered NPCs in our 3D Playground by clicking  👉 [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs).
You can modify the `world.lua` file to teach them new skills with a few lines of Lua scripting.
```

## Make your own demo 🔥

Playing with the demo is just the first step! If you're **interested in customizing it**, [check out our comprehensive ML for Games Course tutorial for step-by-step instructions and resources](https://huggingface.co/learn/ml-games-course/unit3/introduction).

We **can't wait to see the amazing demos you're going to make 🔥**.

In addition, [you can check the documentation to learn more](https://huggingface.co/spaces/cubzh/ai-npcs/blob/main/README.md) on how to tweak NPC behavior and teach NPCs new skills.

-- 

> The collaboration between Cubzh and Gigax has demonstrated **how advanced AI can transform NPC interactions, making them more engaging and lifelike.**
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Maybe the blog post will be even more impactful if it's a bit less compact?

Reviewer 2: I agree
